README.md, before:

# keytrail.nvim

A Neovim plugin that shows the path to the current cursor position in YAML and JSON files using TreeSitter.

![Demo](docs/demo.gif)

## Features

- Shows the object path at cursor for `yaml`, `json`
- Uses TreeSitter for accurate parsing
- Supports array indices
- Transparent and non intrusive path line
- Configurable position, colors, delimiter for path line.

## Requirements

- Neovim 0.9.0 or higher
- TreeSitter parser for YAML and JSON

## Installation

### Using Lazy.nvim

Add this to your Neovim configuration:

```lua
{
    "JFryy/keytrail.nvim",
    dependencies = {
        "nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter",
    },
    config = function()
        require('keytrail').setup({
            -- All fields are optional, defaults shown below
            -- hover_delay = 20,   -- Delay in milliseconds before showing popup
            -- colors = {          -- Array of colors for path segments
            --     "#d4c4a8",      -- Soft yellow
            --     "#c4d4a8",      -- Soft green
            --     "#a8c4d4",      -- Soft blue
            --     "#d4a8c4",      -- Soft purple
            --     "#a8d4c4",      -- Soft teal
            -- },
            -- delimiter = ".",    -- Path segment separator (default changed from → to .)
            -- position = "bottom", -- Popup position ("top" or "bottom")
            -- zindex = 1,         -- Window z-index
            -- bracket_color = "#0000ff", -- Color for array brackets
            -- delimiter_color = "#ff0000", -- Color for path delimiters
            -- filetypes = {       -- Supported file types
            --     yaml = true,
            --     json = true
            -- }
        })
    end
}
```

Make sure you have TreeSitter parsers installed:
```lua
:TSInstall yaml json
```

## Configuration

The plugin can be configured through the `setup` function. All fields are optional and will use their default values if not specified. Here are all available options:

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `hover_delay` | number | `20` | Delay in milliseconds before showing popup |
| `colors` | string[] | `["#d4c4a8", "#c4d4a8", "#a8c4d4", "#d4a8c4", "#a8d4c4"]` | Array of colors for path segments |
| `delimiter` | string | `"."` | Path segment separator |
| `position` | string | `"bottom"` | Popup position ("top" or "bottom") |
| `zindex` | number | `1` | Window z-index |
| `bracket_color` | string | `"#0000ff"` | Color for array brackets |
| `delimiter_color` | string | `"#ff0000"` | Color for path delimiters |
| `filetypes` | table | `{ yaml = true, json = true }` | Supported file types |

Commit message:

add jump window and mapping

README.md, after:

# keytrail.nvim

A Neovim plugin that shows the path to the current cursor position in YAML and JSON files using TreeSitter.

![Demo](docs/demo.gif)

## Features

- Shows the object path at cursor for `yaml`, `json`
- Uses TreeSitter for accurate parsing
- Supports array indices
- Transparent and non intrusive path line
- Configurable position, colors, delimiter for path line.
- Quick jump to path with configurable key mapping

## Requirements

- Neovim 0.9.0 or higher
- TreeSitter parser for YAML and JSON

## Installation

### Using Lazy.nvim

Add this to your Neovim configuration:

```lua
{
    "JFryy/keytrail.nvim",
    dependencies = {
        "nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter",
    },
    config = function()
        require('keytrail').setup({
            -- All fields are optional, defaults shown below
            -- hover_delay = 20,   -- Delay in milliseconds before showing popup
            -- colors = {          -- Array of colors for path segments
            --     "#d4c4a8",      -- Soft yellow
            --     "#c4d4a8",      -- Soft green
            --     "#a8c4d4",      -- Soft blue
            --     "#d4a8c4",      -- Soft purple
            --     "#a8d4c4",      -- Soft teal
            -- },
            -- delimiter = ".",    -- Path segment separator (default changed from → to .)
            -- position = "bottom", -- Popup position ("top" or "bottom")
            -- zindex = 1,         -- Window z-index
            -- bracket_color = "#0000ff", -- Color for array brackets
            -- delimiter_color = "#ff0000", -- Color for path delimiters
            -- filetypes = {       -- Supported file types
            --     yaml = true,
            --     json = true
            -- },
            -- key_mapping = "jq"  -- Key mapping for jump window (will be prefixed with <leader>)
        })
    end
}
```

Make sure you have TreeSitter parsers installed:
```lua
:TSInstall yaml json
```

## Configuration

The plugin can be configured through the `setup` function. All fields are optional and will use their default values if not specified. Here are all available options:

| Option | Type | Default | Description |
|--------|------|---------|-------------|
| `hover_delay` | number | `20` | Delay in milliseconds before showing popup |
| `colors` | string[] | `["#d4c4a8", "#c4d4a8", "#a8c4d4", "#d4a8c4", "#a8d4c4"]` | Array of colors for path segments |
| `delimiter` | string | `"."` | Path segment separator |
| `position` | string | `"bottom"` | Popup position ("top" or "bottom") |
| `zindex` | number | `1` | Window z-index |
| `bracket_color` | string | `"#0000ff"` | Color for array brackets |
| `delimiter_color` | string | `"#ff0000"` | Color for path delimiters |
| `filetypes` | table | `{ yaml = true, json = true }` | Supported file types |
| `key_mapping` | string | `"jq"` | Key mapping for jump window (will be prefixed with `<leader>`) |

## Usage

The plugin provides two ways to jump to a specific path:

1. Using the key mapping `<leader>jq` (configurable via `key_mapping` option)
2. Using the command `:KeyTrailJump`

Both methods will open a popup window where you can enter the path to jump to.
